James Henry Blake (October 7, 1808 – August 1, 1874) was the City Marshal of Boston from 1840–1845. He was the son of Edward Blake and Sarah (Parkman) Blake and nephew of Dr. George Parkman. The Parkmans and Blakes were two prominent families of the Boston Brahmins who were well respected merchants.  Blake established himself as a merchant and real estate broker and also served in the Massachusetts Artillery as Major of Independents Cadets beginning in 1830.  In 1831, while conducting business aboard the ship Mentos, two pirates boarded the boat where Blake witnessed their arrest.  He testified against the pirates in the first of his many court appearances.
On May 12, 1835, he married Marianne Wildes of Boston and ran his brokerage on State Street. He was appointed City Marshal of Boston on May 1, 1840 at an annual salary of $1,000.00. Blake's term as Marshal was a quiet one and most of his activities involved overseeing July 4 celebrations on the Common, taking a census of buildings, banning illegal hay scales along the wharf, and clearing the streets of snow.  He also passed a leash law forbidding large dogs to roam the streets. The most violence he saw was snowball fights, against which he swiftly levied hefty fines.  For his due diligence, he received a salary increase of $100 in 1844.Blake was replaced as Marshal by Ira Gibbons in 1845,  and he returned to the more lucrative business of real estate. He opened an office on State Street and later, as his business grew, moved to Congress Street.  In 1847, Blake, along with police officer Samuel D. Fuller, helped recover articles stolen from Ebenezer Mann, another merchant.  Blake and Officer Fuller would meet again under more serious circumstances.
In May 1849, the City of Boston was growing weary of their City Marshal, Francis Tukey, and 17 citizens petitioned to have Blake return to fill the post, but Tukey held on. Later that year, Tukey was in the unenviable position of coordinating the investigation into the disappearance of Blake's uncle, Dr. George Parkman.